OK let's look at something more interesting.
Let's look at permutation permutation of an object means how many unique lineups can I get.
So for example imagine that you have four friends in your support team and you are the captain.
So now you need to decide in what order your friends will go.
For example running or something like that.
So how many possible lines up do you have.
Well if we try to solve this kind of logically and first round you can choose one of your four friends.
Right.
So let's write for then in the second round you are choosing one.
But only for free remaining friends because one of them ran in the first round.
Right.
So let's write free.
Now you have only two options.
Why.
Well one of your friends run in first round and some other friend runs in second round.
So you can pick only one of the two remaining friends.
So let's try to.
And lastly you have one friend remaining so let's write while now I believe you should see that between
these numbers will be multiplication.
Why.
Well if you pick Bupp first then you have three possible options in second round and two in third round
and so on.
It is pretty much the same as with T-shirts and trousers.
But now you are picking people and there are more rounds than two.
I hope this makes sense.
So now the result will be four times three times two times Swan And that is twenty four.
But some of you might stop in here and see that this is actually factorial of four and you are right
if you are one of those people.
Good for you.
But anyway it is factorial of four.
For those of you who don't know what factorial is it looks like this.
In general there can be an and factorial is defined by this exclamation mark but what it is in general
factorial of then is and times and minus one times and minus two and all the way up to 1.
So for example factory or six will be six times five times four times three times two times one and
factorial.
There's also the general result of permutation.
So if you have permutation Northmen objects the result will be factorial of an.
But I don't want you to use this formula.
Why I want you to think about the problem when you use a formula and don't think about the problem.
It is useless for you.
But when you think about it and solve it by logical deduction you are kind of working gowd your brain.
I know this sounds a bit funny but it is true.
And you can also write it down like I did in the first example.
So there's no shame in that but don't use this formula just because it works.
So now let's look at second example.
You can try to solve this one by yourself and then go back and check with me.
So it goes like this.
Imagine that you have a books about computer science and then you have five books about math.
How many possible lines do you have.
When he won the said books about computer science on left side of table.
And these five books about math on the right side of table feel free to pause the video and try to solve
it.
And don't worry if he gets stuck I will be here to help you out.
So let's start by splitting this task into two.
How well we need to line up all the computer science books and we also need to line up all the math
books.
So one task is to align computer science book and second is to align math books.
Let's start with computer science.
There are a set of them and we need to line them up.
So when we are baking first we have eight options right.
And then when we are picking second one we have only seven options because we already picked one as
first then we have six options because we already picked first and second and we cannot have one book
on two places.
Right.
And this will go on and on until we get to one.
So the result is factorial of fate.
Let's look at the second task where we want to line up five math books.
So when we pick first we have five choices then we are picking second and we have four books and so
on until 1.
So we solve the subtask first one is factorial.
They and second one is factorials 5.
Now let's think about what to do with these results.
And I want to imagine this in the real world if you somehow line up your computer science Vuic you have
factory authorized options how to line up your math books right.
And then if you change the lineup of your computer science books you once again have factorials five
options how to line up math books.
So now you should figure out that for every line up of your computer science books you have factorial
of five options how to align your math books.
You also know that there is a factory all set of possible line ups of your computer science book.
So the result will be factory of eight times factory or all five.
And this will be really a big number.
So yeah I hope this makes sense.
That is kind of how you compute permutation.
Remember in permutation you hath and items and you want to know how many line ups there is.
OK.
If you have any questions feel free to ask and I will see you next time.